# FYRP: EEG of Monks

## Abstract
Analytical meditation is a common meditation practice amongst Tibetan Buddhist monks. Due to its dyadic nature, it differs from the more known (in the West) mindfulness medi- tation practices. Tibetan Buddhist monastics typically practice two different forms of analytical meditation: monastic debate and self-debate. Monastic debate involves at least two monas- tics who try to increase their understanding on a topic within Buddhistphilosophy.Self-debateorindividualanalyticalmed- itation functions as a complement to monastic debate. Previous work suggests that over the course of monastic debate, mid- frontal 4-9 Hz theta oscillations increase significantly. This shows similarities with previous EEG studies on meditation, which suggests that theta and alpha band activity seems af- fected by meditation. Indicating power increases in theta and alpha bands during meditation. Little is known about how the associated EEG data of these forms of analytical meditation compare to that of more known meditation practices such as mindfulness meditation. Therefore, we compared these 3 dif- ferent meditation practices (monastic debate, self-debate and mindfulness), based on their associated EEG data, to determine their effect on 4-9 Hz theta and 9-14 Hz alpha, using regression models. Our results indicate that monastic debate differs from self-debate and mindfulness meditation, based on their asso- ciated EEG data, associated with differences in prefrontal and occipital 9-14 Hz alpha. This study gives novel insights into how analytical meditation and mindfulness meditation com- pare based on their associated EEG data. Furthermore, these results are a good starting point to further investigate if, when and where analytical meditation differs from other meditation practices, based on their associated EEG data.

